Personal Creative Assignment Proposal
Nicole Louise de Groot – 114 191 56

My inspiration came from the datasets that are available to us on the site bij Marijn Koolen (http://humanities.uva.nl/~mkoolen1/teaching/#/FOtD/2015/datasets). The reason these peaked my interest is because in my bachelor program at the VU, we talked a lot about words that carry a certain meaning when used in a specific sentence or context. People use such words with a reason, either conscious or unconsciously. Such opinionating words are used often in pieces of text that are meant to convey a meaning, so reviews and essays. I chose reviews simply because they are available to me right away and there are a lot of them. I also believe reviews are a good research topic, because they all fall under the same genre, whereas essays can be about a number of different topics, which might be difficult when we get to generalizing the results (considering each field has their own jargon).

The interesting thing about most sites where you can review products is the ability to rate, like and/or dislike the reviews. ‘Good’ reviews, therefore, can get upvoted and similarly, ‘bad’ reviews can be downvoted. What is also a vital part in this research project is the fact that these up- and downvotes are cast by the public and customers themselves, which gives a nice image of what they actually want and don’t want, or, maybe you should rather say, what the public considers ‘good’ and ‘bad’. If online (and maybe even offline) stores would know what the public likes and dislikes, then maybe they could use these tactics in the future to generate product descriptions or even whole products (in this case books) that fit better with the customers’ expectations (and therefore augment the chances of people buying their products).
The question then arises: What makes a review, in the eye of the customer, a ‘good’ review?

Method
To answer this question, you can look at (the quantity of) sentence length and -count, word length and -count and the complexity of the sentences and overall review (e.g. does it contain paragraphs, headers, punctuation, etc.).
This can be done with either Regex in Rstudio or with the help of Cygwin/Unix code. You would start by downloading the 'Amazon book reviews' and the 'Amazon movie reviews' from the site mentioned above. Then you could tag the reviews themselves (so without all the metadata, like author, number of likes, etc.) by using Regex and run them through Cygwin to find the number and classes of the words and/or sentences.

After researching this, it might be interesting to study the effect of these ‘good’ reviews on actual sales, which would form the question: What is the actual effect of ‘good’ reviews on sales of a product?

This question can be answered by using multiple subquestions:
Do products with more ‘good’ reviews actually get bought more than products that don’t?
Do products with more ‘average’ reviews get bought more than products with fewer ‘good’ reviews?

For this, you would need to look on the Amazon site or use the Amazon API if that's available and try to find a correlation with these data using Rstudio.

